paying close attention to something not
that easy it did because our tension is
called in so many different directions
at a time and it's in fact pretty
impressive if you can stay focused many
people think that attention is all about
what we are focusing on but it's also
about what information our brain is
trying to filter them out there are two
ways you direct your attention first
there is over detention in over
intention you move your eyes towards
something in order to pay attention to
it
then there's covert attention in covert
attention you pay attention to something
but without moving your eyes think of
driving for a second you're over
attention your direction of the eyes are
in front but that's your covert
attention which is constantly scanning
the surrounding area where you don't
actually look at them I'm a
computational neuroscientist and I work
on cognitive brain machine interfaces or
bringing together the brain and the
computer
I love brain patterns brain patterns are
important for us because based on them
we can build models for the computers
and based on these models computers can
recognize how well our brain function
and if it doesn't function well then
these computers themselves can be used
as assistive tech devices for therapies
but that also means something because
choosing the wrong patterns will give us
the wrong models and therefore the wrong
therapies right in case our attention
the fact that we can shift our attention
not only by our eyes but also by
thinking that makes covert attention an
interesting model for computer
so I wanted to know what is the
brainwave patterns make you look overtly
or when you look covertly
I set up an experiment for that in this
experiment there are two flickering
squares one of them flickering slower
rate than the other one depending on
which of these flickers you're paying
attention to certain parts of your brain
that starts resonating in the same rate
as that flickering rate so by analyzing
your brain signals we can track very
exactly you're washing or you're paying
attention to so to see what happens in
your brain when you pay over attention I
ask people to look directly in one of
these squares and pay attention to it in
this case not surprisingly we saw that
these flickering squares appeared in
their brain signals which was coming
from their back of their head which is
responsible for the processing of your
visual information but what I was really
interested to see what happens in your
brain when you pay covert attention so
this time I asked people to look in the
middle of the screen and without moving
their eyes to pay attention to either of
these squares when we did that we saw
that both of these flickering rates
appeared in their brain signals but
interestingly only one of them which was
paid attention to had stronger signals
so there was something in the brain
which was handling these information so
that thing in the brain was basically
the activation of the frontal area the
front part of your brain is responsible
for higher cognitive functions as a
human the frontal part it seems that it
works as a filter trying to let
information coming only from the right
flicker that you're paying attention to
and trying to inhibit the information
coming from the ignored one
the filtering ability of the brain is
indeed a key for attention which is
missing in some people for example in
people with ADHD s so a person with ADHD
cannot inhibit these distractors and
that's why they can focus for a long
time on a single task but what if this
person could play a specific computer
game with his brain connected to the
computer and then train his own brain to
inhibit these distractors well ADHD is
just one example we can use this
cognitive brain machine interfaces for
many other cognitive fields it was just
a few years ago that my grandfather had
a stroke and he lost complete ability to
speak he could understand everybody but
there was no way to respond even not
writing because he was illiterate so he
passed away in silence I remember
thinking at that time what if we could
have a computer which could speak for
him now after years that I'm in this
field I can see that this might be
possible imagine if we can find
brainwave patterns when people think
about images or even letters like letter
a generates a different brainwave
pattern than letter B and so on could a
computer one day communicate for people
who can't speak what if a computer can
help us understand the thoughts of a
person in a coma but we are not there
yet but pay close attention we will be
there soon thank you
you